A black delegate was going to be coming from to the
campus and how would the campus react and how could
we prepare for this and so of course all of us on the
executive committee were in favor of it.
We did not want to publicize it however because We
didn't want to give any, if there were any
rednecks, we didn't want to give lead time for any
opposition to form and to create problems or
demonstrations or anything that might bring bad
attention to A&M. So
we decided we wouldn't publicize it. Nobody would
say anything other than to make arrangements
behind the scenes.
And I think they had made arrangements for him to
stay with, I think Wayne or somebody that Wayne
knew had made arrangements for him to stay with
maybe the black minister in the community. And
then later decided to put him in at the MSC. And it
all worked out okay. And it all worked out okay.
Well, it did except that on the first day, When all
the delegates began to arrive and they realized
there was a black delegate there, some of the
delegates who were our guests wanted to make a real
big deal of it. They wanted to focus on him as if he
were a celebrity rather than focus on the topic of
SCONA. And we said, no, we don't want to do that.
Everything's going to be normal. You're not going
to make him a cause celebre. focus on this. And we
had to do almost some arm twisting and almost
threatened to send some of them home as being
ungracious guests if they didn't settle down. And
I remember having to talk to some of the delegates
that wanted to do that, to publicize this, and
telling them, look, we want to set a precedent. We
want it to go well. We don't want to give an
opposition chance to form. We wanted to do it,
treat everything as if it's normal, and we'll
publicize it after the fact. You can still get all
the mileage that you want out of it, but without
creating a big incident. And finally, we
convinced them, the cooler heads prevail, to not
make this a big thing, and it went well. It was a
precedent-setting move. What about one or two of
the highlights, the high points? That one ended up
positively, but some other things that you
remember being very proud of in your Scona
leadership years? We initiated
what we called at the time cultural leadership
activities. Wayne and one of his assistants named
Bill Height and I went down to Houston. We met with
John Lindsay, we met with Nina Vance at the Alley
Theater, we met with a number of folks, the
director of the Houston Symphony Orchestra, I
don't remember that name right now, but What we
wanted to do was to have a cultural weekend with
selected student leaders on campus being invited
to go by invitation, not by volunteer group,
because we knew it had to be, especially
initially, had to be a small control group. And we
did that in Houston, and that one went well. So the
next year, we did one in Dallas, including the, we
timed it for the opera, Dallas opera season. and uh
and that kicked off it took hold and it's been going
ever since and it's now called spring leadership
it has it has evolved some in selection criteria
and what they do and where they go but basically
that was initiated in 60 61
or 62. the second one was the msc travel committee
And this was one of Wayne's brainstorms. He
probably got the idea from some of his association
conferences with other student union leaders,
but the idea was to publicize and attract and
motivate students to want to go any kind of an
overseas experience so we got a lot of literature
on things like the experiment international
living uh... this operation crossroads and any
other kinds of activities that would facilitate
and just publicize opportunities. And then the
students, of course, would have to volunteer and
sometimes raise money and pay for them
themselves. But it was a great experience. Well,
that first year, I got caught up with the publicity
and what we're doing. That's when I signed up for
that Operation Crossroads to East Africa.
Reggie Richardson, who was the deputy corps
commander, was the first chairman of the Travel
Committee and he got all the information, all the
publicity together and helped facilitate this.
We had four people, two of us went on Operation
Crossroads and two to experiment international
living. And then the next year, there were several
more. And then my brother, who came in as a freshman
the year I graduated, we overlapped there in the
fall of 63.
But he eventually became active in the MSC. And I
think he was a travel committee chairman. And he
went to Switzerland with the experiment in
international living. as a result of that. So he
was also in Hellcat 9. Do you realize now in looking
back that your MSC activities were important to
your development? Oh, absolutely. Absolutely.
That was, I think it was all, it all contributed.
But I would say Those three years as the Great
Issues Committee Chairman and as Vice President
and as President of the MSC Council and
Directorate, probably if I had to give the key, the
top among a lot of different influences and
developmental high points, that would have to
rate at the top. Let's see, I'm looking at lesser
matters here. Describe going to an Aggie
basketball game in those years. I
went to several of them. I had played basketball in
high school, but we were in G. Raleigh White.
And it was crowded. It was, no, not very crowded.
No, there was plenty of space available for
basketball games even then. I think you said that
tongue in cheek, didn't you? I don't think I ever
went to a basketball game in G. Raleigh-White
where it was a packed house. Because I don't think
during my four years there,
I don't think we ever even got into Southwest
Conference playoffs. And so, although, I'm
trying to think who the coach was. Was it Shelby
Metcalf there that early? Shelby was an assistant
coach then, Bob Rogers. Bob Rogers, okay, I
remember that name. And the change would have come
at about your senior year, somewhere about that
time. 63 or 64, maybe, yeah, okay. But that was...
you know that the team was good and I knew some of the
guys I knew you know Jerry Windham and Lee Walker
and Jim Keller were some of the guys on the team that
uh... but I didn't know any of them really well oh
Louis Qualls the guy was I knew him because he was
from Smiley and when I was in high school I played
against him and when Conroe played Smiley I was
assigned to guard Lewis Qualls and here I was about
at that time about five ten or five eleven and he's
like six ten or six eleven and after the game you
know the folks were in high school were you know
kind of consoling me about how well, how hard I
tried and how well I'd tried. I'd fouled out early
in the fourth quarter because I was trying too
aggressively to keep him from getting the ball and
try to guard him and they were trying to console me
and so I told him, I said, I told Lewis once when we
were standing side by side on the free throw line at
one time, I told him, I said, if he didn't behave and
quit pushing me around, I was going to punch him
right in the knee. But he was a tall drink of water.
What other student organizations had a high
profile during that time other than the Corps and
the MSC? What about singing cadets? Singing
cadets were very popular. They were still fairly
early in their growth cycle. You may happen to know
what year Bob Boone started. I don't know if it was
59 or 60 or 61. It was fairly early. He was new and he
was building and I don't know who his predecessor
was or if he had a predecessor but it was building
but it was still very impressive then we always
enjoyed hearing them sing. What about Yale
leaders? How much prestige did Yale leaders have?
They had a lot. Probably, they were probably,
because they were more visible, they probably had
more prestige and influence than student body
presidents or MSC council presidents or I think
that because they were so visible at football
games, they probably, I think they and the corps
commanders in fact they probably even had more
more visibility and prestige even than the corps
commander did as far as uh because you know at the
yell leader at the yell practices over in the grove
and at the games themselves the head yell leader
and the yell leaders were up you know that they were
up rallying the troops and telling the fables and
leading the yells and everything so with the the
other folks you're more behind the scenes and
don't have the the visibility or the publicity
that the Yale leaders did. Did you know that secret
fraternities existed? I did not. I have heard in
subsequent years that some did. I was never
invited to join one and actually was kind of
revolted at the idea of secret fraternities
because to me that smacks of elitism. For sure,
maybe it's a way of networking and a way of
maneuvering yourself and your buddies into
positions of power and influence, but I don't like
that. I prefer a meritocracy where people can, by
their talent and their hustle and their
leadership, I just think it's easier to sustain
that, whereas if a secret cabal is holding you in
place, and you're dependent more on them than you
are on the facts and genuinely polling and leading
public opinion to help you, you can maneuver
yourself into some pretty untenable positions
and then you either have to
have your cabal artificially hold you in place or
else you kind of go down in flames and disgrace with
nobody supporting you publicly because if your
cabal comes out to support you then they identify
themselves and I just don't like that system and
yet I kind of suspect some of that might still be
going on. You did know about steam tunnels. Yep.
Did you ever go down in the steam? Absolutely. When
we were, again, my freshman year, when we were over
in dorm seven, from the back of the dorm, you could
see the band hall. And the band had abused us on one
occasion. We had done very well that semester with
some of the, well, the previous week had done well
at a march off and had won it. and had beaten either
one of their units or one of their favorites. And
maybe there might have been some personal
rivalries between some of our upperclassmen and
some of them, but at any rate, during a march-off,
there's a way you can do an offbeat roll-off
between songs. The drummers will roll, and if they
intend to do this, They'll roll and then start the
next song one beat early which means that you're on
the wrong foot as you come by. And they did that to us
as we were approaching the reviewing stand. and as
a result we had some guys you know we'd been told if
that happens you just continue you don't do a
change step you just continue and you shift to the
right foot well some of the few of the guys didn't
remember that or were confused and they were used
to hitting the beat on the left foot so they changed
step others didn't and so here we are out of sync as
we go by the reviewing stand. So we get a bad grade
that week. Well, we seethe and simmer about that a
little bit and we decide we're going to flood the
band dorm. And so we did some intelligence
collection. We got in the steam tunnels. Earl
Henderson and I again were, in fact Earl drew up the
the ops plan the sequencing of events and the
timing and everything and we did the recon
ordering in there knowing where found in the steam
tunnels most of the the valves the wheels on the
valves had been removed so you just had the stem
coming out with the little square thing on it but it
was to prevent the tampering with it but we had
found one and had stored it in our room And so we had a
way to turn the main valve. So we knew then, once we
had found that, we knew we could do it if the guys
didn't get caught. So one day at noon, we had some
fish dressed up as sophomores, and they were
wearing their hats and wearing the slick black
belt and the black braid so they could go in and
disguise themselves. And in case anybody was left
in the dorm, well, sure enough, there was a guy in
the dorm and he didn't go to chow with them. and they
said well we're up here we're looking for Fish
Rabel or uh... uh... or uh... we're looking for
Chip Rabel who was a sophomore this was a fish but it
was from the same hometown from Spring Branch knew
a name to drop and he said he said well you won't find
him uh... he said he's at Chow and besides well he
wouldn't why would you expect him to be here during
Chow he said well we were supposed to meet him and
uh... we're running late we thought he might have
waited for us and so anyway the guy went on back into
his room and then later on got a little bit
suspicious, but by this time, that group
retreated. We had a group going to every floor,
every bathroom, taking the heads off of the flush
toilets
after the water was turned off. and they got those
well that group didn't do theirs but the other see
two four six we got seven out of eight of the
bathrooms done I was in the steam tunnel with the
wheel and as the last guy left on his way out of the
building he gave the secret knock on the door and
turned the valve and then beat feet back through
and get to our dorm and then we're in that window
looking out that back window to see what the
reaction was and just as those guys were leaving
the guy who had been contacted had second thoughts
and he thought something's happening and he went
out and as he was going out the door he was headed out
the door to sound a warning when the flood started
and so they they reacted pretty quickly because he
ran right across there to the chow hall and then all
the band people ran back so there was a good
indo-chinese fire drill there i need to quit
because i got to be at him okay